---
title: Ph.D thesis vacancy
date: 2020-12-01
---
**Robust and sequential algorithms development for multi-temporal InSAR**

The systematic acquisition of and free access to Sentinel-1 A/B Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) images covering Europe every 6 days (every 12 days elsewhere) provide scientists with both opportunities and challenges for operational monitoring of Earth deformation by SAR image time series. For displacement estimation from SAR image time series, numerous multi-temporal Interferometry SAR (InSAR) methods, such as Small BAseline Subset, Permanent Scatterer Interferometry, SqueeSAR, Phase Linking methods, Multi-link InSAR, CAESAR, Least-Square
estimator and EMI, have been extensively developed and implemented. Thanks to these methods, the accuracy of the displacement velocity estimation has been revolutionized to millimeters per year. However, these methods are mainly retrospective analysis tools and do not allow efficient gradual integration of new SAR images that arrive over time and it is necessary to restart part of or the whole displacement estimation processing chain, which would be prohibitively expensive in practice and does not answer the need for operational monitoring. Moreover, the hypothesis of complex Gaussian distributions has often been made for SAR image statistics, while this hypothesis cannot be justified in a lot of cases. The estimation built on a Gaussian hypothesis can give very
poor results that will affect the reliability of the displacement information. Therefore, it is still necessary to develop more elaborated recursive multi-temporal InSAR methods allowing for efficient gradual integration of new arriving SAR images and considering non Gaussianity of data statistics.

In this Ph.D thesis, we aim to develop a novel robuste and recursive multi-temporal InSAR approach for operational displacement estimation from SAR image time series. We consider the Phase Linking approach as baseline approach. This approach, based on a maximum likelihood estimator, provides a mathematical framework for obtaining an optimal displacement estimation in the statistical sense. Moreover, this approach allows for a full exploration of all possible combinations of a SAR image stack by formally taking the impact of the temporal decorrelation of the observed phenomenon into account. More importantly, from the formulation of this approach, we can interpret interferograms as elements of the full sample covariance matrix of the SAR image time series, which gives perspective to perform robust and recursive displacement estimation by means of advanced statistical tools dedicated for sample covariance matrix estimation.

We consider the Piton de la Fournaise and Merapi volcano test sites as proving ground for the developed approach in this Ph.D thesis. Both descending and ascending Sentinel-1 A/B acquisitions are available. GPS measurements from permanent GNSS stations are also available for results comparison and validation.